# Paradata
---

I began Module 2 by reading over the options for remixing my 3d model from Module 1. I decided to sonify the vertices data in order to create a new way of experiencing the original object. As the original object was transformed in Module 1 into a 3d model, I thought it would be interesting to transform it further into sound. 

I followed the steps providing in the [FAQ](https://github.com/shawngraham/hist3812w18/wiki/How-do-I-sonify-the-data-I-created-in-Module-1%3F) for the course. I couldn't locate the obj. file which contained the vertice points by downloading my model from [Sketchfab](https://sketchfab.com/rachmj/models). So I located the obj. file in the model I created using Photoscan. I opened it in Notepad++ and saw that it provided both 'v' and 'vn' values. I decided to use only the 'v' values, and used the first 25 vertices for my first attempt. I copied the values into a separate Notepad++ document in order to edit them, and changed the data from three columns into three rows of data in Excell. 

After having edited the data, I copied each row individually into Musical Algorithms' Pitch Input. I played around with decimal placement and ways of representing the values and realized that using 25 vertices resulted in too short a sonification, and decided to try with 100 vertices. I repeated the process of editing the formatting the vertices in Notepad++ and Excell. I then inputted them into Musical Algorithms and decided to use the first two decimal places as the value for each vertices in the first two rows. For the third, I removed the numbers after the decimals completely. I edited the scales, keys, instruments, and speed of the final sonification in order to produce something which sounded pleasing to the ear. I then saved the MIDI file and the CSV file for the sonification. 

Once having completed the sonification, I realized I needed to convert the MIDI file in order to post it to Soundcloud. I found a website which converted sound files for free called [Online Converter](https://www.onlineconverter.com/midi-to-wav) and was able to successfully use it. I then uploaded my sonification to my Soundcloud Account. 

I found that [the sonification](https://soundcloud.com/user-994863578/sonified-churchill) had a better result the more data that I used. In order to create the most accurate portrayal of the data from my 3d model, I would need to sonify all the vertices. I felt that using the first 100 vertices allowed for insight into how the data sounds and creates a new way in which the original object can be remixed. In transformign the original physical object of the Churchill Jug into a 3d model in Module 1, I was able to create a way in which the object became more accessible to a wider audience. It also allowed for the object to be understood in a new way, within the digital world. In remixing the data from the 3d model, the object is once again transformed. While the data remains the same, the end result it creates has changed. The object has thus taken on new meaning as something which is experienced through sound. 

The sonification of the 3d model allows for the object to be perceived in a different way. I find that the sonification helps to augment the experience of the 3d model. It provided further accessbility to the object and embrasses more senses than the 3d model does on its own. In combining the 3d model with the sonification it could helps us to understand the data which is the foundation of the object. In being able to actually hear the data, one can gain a greater understanding of the patterns and elements which make up the 3d model. Sonification allows for a new way of experiencing the object and a greater depth of conprehension of the ways in which that object exists. 